[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
I'm very happy to have
with me today
Daniel Sheehan, whom
I've been waiting to interview
for at least 15 years.
Daniel is a constitutional
and public interest attorney
who began his quest for justice
on such high-profile cases
as the Pentagon Papers,
Watergate, Iran-Contra Scandal,
and Karen Silkwood case.
A strange fork in
his road, however,
took him on a path
to the Vatican
to explore the possibility
of extraterrestrial life
interfacing with planet Earth.
This is the point at which
I became aware of his work
in Laughlin, Nevada, early 2001.
And let's just say
this right up front.
Everybody hold on.
You're going to need
to rewind a lot.
There is no other
human I've met like you
who has had the
breadth of experience
and somehow had their fingers
in the pies of so many
different high-profile things.
It's almost unbelievable.
And you seem to have had
access to very deep levels
of information and knowledge
throughout the whole thing.
Is it just that you're
incredibly connected?
Or did it start with some
of those early cases that
gave you entree?
>>DANIEL SHEEHAN:
Well, it actually
started with my having been
given this full scholarship
to Harvard College and
into Harvard Law School
and coming out of there,
founding the Harvard Civil
Rights Law Review.
And people contacted the
Harvard Civil Rights Law
Review asking us to help
them on particular cases.
And what I did is I
struck an agreement
with the number-one
law firm in the country
on Wall Street, the
major litigation law
firm in the world
and got them to agree
to allow me to spend
half of my time
doing free public interest
cases as a condition
for my being
willing to go there.
Because I started the case at
the Harvard Civil Rights Law
Review that established
the right of journalists
to protect their
confidential news sources.
So the law firm that
represents NBC News
recruited me to come there.
And then I got them
to agree that I
could spend half of my
time doing pro bono cases.
And so people began to come
to me from around the country
to do these cases with
this high-profile back-up.
And that's how it
really happened.
>>REGINA: OK, so it's
not just fairy dust.
I mean, you're super smart.
You were very strategic
in your thinking.
You always followed really your
heart and your moral standards.
I mean, your ethics is a
really big part of this,
and it put you in
connection with people
so that you had knowledge
other people didn't know.
And if you don't mind my setting
this thing up, when I first
talked to you-- the
first time I had
a private conversation with
you, which was early 2001,
Bush had just been elected.
I was WTF.
We were talking.
I said, how did this happen?
And you explained to me the
background of what happened
and that Gore didn't do what he
had agreed to do at the party.
And you said, Regina,
well, you don't
think these are free elections.
These things are
determined well in advance.
And that was, what?
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: And when you said
that, you said, oh, yeah.
You said, it doesn't matter
that the democratic part didn't
work out.
He didn't choose Kerry
as his running mate.
But it's OK, because Kerry will
be the Democratic candidate
for the presidency in 2004.
I said, that's 3 and
1/2 years from now.
You said, watch.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: How-- OK.
We'll talk at the end of
the show about what might
be coming up this time around.
But the point is, how
were you aware of how
that system works alone?
And then we're going to
go back to your story.
>>SHEEHAN: Well,
very quickly, right
after we filed the
federal civil lawsuit
against the off-the-shelf
enterprise of Lieutenant
Colonel Oliver North
and the former director
of covert operations for the
CIA under George HW Bush, when
I came back to Washington, DC,
because the federal judge down
in Florida, where
we filed the case,
I discovered was, in
fact, a former member
of the board of directors of
Meyer Lansky's national bank
of Miami, which is where
the mafia was bringing
the skim off the
casinos into that bank
to fund covert
operations against Cuba.
And so here we were.
We had this judge who entered
a gag order against us,
totally prohibiting
us from talking
to anybody about the fact that
the case had been even filed.
And so I came back
home to Washington,
and I contacted Russ Hemenway,
a close friend of John Kennedy's
in the Navy and the head of the
Fund for an Effective Congress.
And he said, look, I'm going
to call Tip O'Neill right away,
the Speaker of the House
of Representatives,
and have you go over and
sit down and meet with him.
So I went over and sat
down and met with Tip
right that morning.
And Tip said, well,
look, the Democrats
are in charge of the
House of Representatives.
If what you're saying here
in the Iran-Contra case
is true, why, then, these
are impeachable offenses.
These are activities
at the highest levels
of the Reagan-Bush
administration in open defiance
of the Boland Amendment that was
passed by Congress prohibiting
them from giving
any military aid,
direct or indirect,
to these contras
down in Central America,
who have been determined
by the International Court
in the Hague of being
international war
criminals for mining
the international harbors
down in Nicaragua.
And so I told Tip
O'Neill about that.
And he said, well, the Democrats
aren't in control of the Senate
right now.
The Republicans are
still in control.
This is June 1, 1986,
this meeting took place.
So I said, I'm going to send
you over to the Senate side
to talk with
Claiborne Pell, who's
the ranking Democrat on the
Senate Foreign Relations
Committee.
You get an agreement from
him that if the Democrats win
the Senate back in November of
'86 here, nine months later,
he said, that you
get him to agree
that they'll set up a special
select committee to investigate
your charges.
And then we can bring
impeachment actions
against HW Bush and Bill
Casey and the others.
>>REGINA: William
Casey, head of the CIA.
>>SHEEHAN: The head of the CIA.
And so he said, but Claiborne
Pell is going to ask you,
who do you think should head
up that Senate committee?
You tell him John Kerry.
Because he loves John Kerry.
We kid him that John Kerry
must be his illegitimate son.
He says he thinks John Kerry is
going to be president someday.
And I said, well, that's funny,
because so does John Kerry.
And he laughed.
So we did that.
So I went over and met
with Claiborne Pell.
And Claiborne Pell agreed to
set up the select committee
and to have John
Kerry head it up.
And so I ended up bringing all
this information to John Kerry
and giving him all
the information
about the Iran-Contra,
smuggling of weapons,
the cocaine smuggling,
and everything.
And he, when the Democrats
won the Senate back
in November of 1986, he
came on and was appointed
to be the head of the Senate
Select Committee on Narcotics
and Terrorism.
And so I kept delivering all
of this information to him,
when suddenly Russ
Hemenway calls me
two years into this
event and says,
I was in a meeting
with John Kerry,
and Don Regan came
into the meeting
and told him that
the Republican Party
leadership had just contacted
the Democratic Party leadership
and wanted Kerry to drop this
investigation about the drug
smuggling and the terrorism
activities of these people.
And if you will agree to step
back from this investigation,
you will be made the vice
presidential candidate to run
with Al Gore when Al Gore--
>>REGINA: Oh, you had a
big heads up years prior.
>>SHEEHAN: When Al Gore runs
for the presidency, right?
And now this is in 1991.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
See, I didn't know
this part, how this
happened, how you knew that.
I've been waiting to
ask you how you knew.
>>SHEEHAN: Because they knew
that Bill Clinton was going
to be the nominee in
1992, and Al Gore was
going to be his vice
presidential candidate.
Because Bill
Clinton-- we had gone
to meet with Bill
Clinton back in 1990
because we discovered the
smuggling of the weapons
and drugs out of Mena, Arkansas.
And we went to see him.
Our people sat down
with him directly when
he was the governor of Arkansas.
Ross Perot set the
whole thing up.
And you remember Ross Perot is
the one that stopped George HW
Bush from getting a second
term by running and taking
19% of the vote.
So I was involved with all
of those people back in 1991.
So everybody knew
what the scenario
was that was laid out as to
how this thing was going to go,
because they had anticipated
that George HW Bush was going
to be running for another term
so that they ended up waiting
and then ran Bill
Clinton against him.
And so I knew all
of those people
and all of the involvement
that was going on.
So I knew way ahead of time.
So when you ask me
how did I know--
>>REGINA: You just
happen to know.
>>SHEEHAN: How did I know that
John Kerry-- I said, well,
funny you should ask.
And so I told you.
>>REGINA: OK, now, there
was another element
of this that struck me.
I started paying
attention, thinking
how does the media--
if it's already
been decided, how does the
media play into it and spin it?
And I noticed-- it struck me.
I've never forgotten.
Early on I saw an article on
who the frontrunners were.
This was quite far out
from the election still.
And it had lovely graphics,
and it showed Kerry
up front, chest out,
big jaw, frontrunner.
And I thought, how
do they know this?
I mean, no one really
knows much about this guy.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah, there
were no polls in yet.
>>REGINA: There were
no polls or anything.
And then it showed
at the very back--
and this is going
to take us back
where we're going-- little tiny
blue mouse, Dennis Kucinich.
And I thought, oh, my God.
This is how you spin it.
And so the people
are being programmed
but think there's choice in it.
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, yeah.
No, that's all true.
>>REGINA: It's brilliant.
I mean, it's dastardly but
brilliant how we're managed.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
What it is is that--
and I discovered this
because my father was the
first Sheehan man in our family
ever to graduate
from high school.
And I ended up getting
a full-boat scholarship
to Harvard College then to
Harvard Law School and stuff.
So I always said, look,
I've got nothing to lose.
I've come from absolutely
nowhere to have
these kind of credentials.
So I'm going to stick with
it to do the right things all
the time.
And that's what
I continue to do.
And so-- but I was being invited
in to this club, you know,
OK, you're out of Harvard
College, Harvard Law School
now.
You're invited into the club.
You just have to
do certain things.
And you become a member of
the Annisquam Yacht Club.
You marry one of the daughters
of one of the senior partners.
And you could see this
unfolding out in front of you,
or I could, anyway.
And so what I did is I just
declined to do it, politely.
I wasn't fighting with them.
I wasn't doing anything.
And so what I did is I could
meet the members of the club.
And they--
>>REGINA: Without really
having to join it, in a sense.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah, without
having to join it.
They just assumed
that I was going
to be willing to
participate in this
because I should be in awe
of all of these people.
Because here I was, a brand
new member of this club.
And all I did is I just
declined to do those things.
I declined to go in
meet the daughter
of the senior partner
when I was invited
to go to her coming out.
And I just declined
to do those things.
And they couldn't
quite figure out
why I was declining
to do these things,
because I seem
smarter than that.
But I just didn't do that.
And so I got to meet all
these people firsthand.
And that's why I
know Tip O'Neill.
I could call Russ Hemenway.
>>REGINA: Oh, you're
incredibly well-connected,
more than anybody I've ever met.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah, but it
was just surprising to me,
but I figured this was
perfectly OK, that this
is the way it was
supposed to be,
and all I had to do is stay
on the straight and narrow
and do the right things
all the time, which I did,
never compromised
what I was doing,
and to maintain
respectfulness toward them
and not insult them.
And that's what happened.
So that's how that's how I can
pick up the telephone, call
Russ Hemenway, who's
the head of, as I said,
the Committee for an
Effective Congress,
who raises-- he used
to laugh about this.
He raised all the money for
the congressional candidates
that were liberals, whether they
were Republicans or Democrats.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHING] I love it.
OK, so now we have to get to--
I just have to set this up
for our audience watching.
These are really smart people.
Your experience is so vast, and
the web is so vast and tangled,
that you need to pay attention.
And like I said, you're going
to have to rewind a bit.
Because when I
listen to you, I'm
awestruck at the strangeness
of the bedfellows
and the confluence of
events and stories,
where how did that
person historically
have anything to do with that?
And yet they do.
And you know all the parts.
You've been part of the
moving parts of the stories.
So I'm just letting
everyone know in advance.
It might seem like we're
going tangential at times
because we are.
We will be.
Because everything connects
to everything else.
Now, I want to start directing
it toward this topic,
because we're going to have
another two-hour conversation
later.
Let's go back now to disclosure,
which our audience is intrigued
with, the whole thing.
And I originally met
you through Steven Greer
and was at disclosure, as
you were, in Washington, DC.
Dennis Kucinich
was part of that,
as he had his ban on
space-based weapons
he was trying to get
through at the time.
So let's back it up a bit.
How did you initially become
invited, as I said in the open,
into that field, that story?
>>SHEEHAN: It started
out in late 1976.
In 1976, remember that Jimmy
Carter was elected president
on November 4 of 1976.
And one of the first things
he did, as the newly elected
president, he contacted the
head of the Central Intelligence
Agency and asked that person
to come in and provide to him
all the information
that the CIA had
about extraterrestrial
intelligence and the UFO
phenomenon.
Because as you know,
President Carter,
when he was governor of Georgia,
had seen a UFO, not just
one these far-away
lights in the sky,
but a UFO, which he was
convinced what it was.
So he called that person in.
Well, that person
was George HW Bush.
He had been selected by Jerry
Ford when Jerry Ford came in
after Nixon resigned.
And Jerry Ford
selected George HW Bush
to be the head of the
Central Intelligence Agency.
But in that meeting with
President-Elect Carter
in late November of
1976, George HW Bush
said to him, oh, OK,
you're the president-elect.
Now, before I agree to
give you this information
about the extraterrestrial and
UFO information that we have,
you have to agree to leave me
on as the head of the Central
Intelligence Agency for you.
I want to become like John Edgar
Hoover was for the FBI, stayed
there one administration
after another,
and I will agree never
to run for public office.
I'll just stay here as the head
of the Central Intelligence
Agency.
And Jimmy Carter said, no,
I have someone else in mind
that I want to bring on is
the head of the CIA, who
happened to be Teddy Sorensen.
And so George HW Bush refused
to give him the information.
And he said, in order for
you to get this information,
you're going to have to
go to the House Science
and Technology Committee, have
them contact the Congressional
Research Service, and have
them request declassification
for these documents.
Because the only
people that are allowed
to see them at the present time
are those with a need to know,
and you don't have
any need to know this.
>>REGINA: Now, is
it urban legend
that he came out of that
meeting very distressed?
And I know in the
UFO circles it said
he came out in tears he was
so distressed at the scenario.
>>SHEEHAN: No.
He was upset, according to the
people who talked with him,
and was aware of the fact that
there was a power elite that he
hadn't been aware of.
But he went ahead
and he contacted
the Democratic head of the
House Science and Technology
Committee, got them to contact
the Congressional Research
Service, and they
assigned the task
to the science and technology
division, the head of which
was Marshall Smith at the time.
So in late November, I'm
sitting having lunch,
actually, with
Rosemary Chalk, who
is the executive
secretary of the National
Academy of Science,
who happened to be
a member of the same
church that I went to
that Dan Berrigan used
to be the priest for.
And I represented Dan
Berrigan and Phil Berrigan
and Liz McAllister
and the others
in lots of cases earlier.
And so Rosemary Chalk
and I were having lunch.
And she said, this is
amazing that you've
done all these cases,
the Pentagon Papers
case, the Watergate burglary
case, the right of a journalist
to protect their
confidential news sources.
You must have always
wanted to be a lawyer.
You're just a natural lawyer.
I said, well, actually, no.
I wanted to originally
be an astronaut.
And I was going to go
to the Air Force Academy
and become an astronaut.
I was the number one candidate
in the state of New York,
but the senator, Jacob Javits,
that I had the meeting with,
gave the appointment
to the son of one
of his major contributors.
>>REGINA: But tell us why, I
mean, that's the critical part.
The key to that is
when he asked you why
you wanted to be an astronaut.
I love this part.
>>SHEEHAN: He said, Dan, why
do you want to be an astronaut?
I said, because I want
to go into outer space.
This is an extraordinary
period in our human family,
and I want to be able
to go into outer space
to get to actually
meet the other people
from extraterrestrial
civilizations.
And he looked at me and
he said, you actually
believe that there's
other civilizations,
extraterrestrial civilizations?
And I laughed and
I said, well, sure.
So do you.
You're a United States senator.
You know better than that.
And he was floored.
He just looked at me and
was astonished by this.
And that's what caused
him to admit to me--
>>REGINA: And that's why he
said the job was already filled.
>>SHEEHAN: That's why he
admitted to me-- he said, I
wasn't supposed to do this,
and I shouldn't tell you this,
but I've already given the
appointment to someone else,
the son of this man.
And so he said, but you go back
to your congressional district,
and you'll get the congressional
appointment instead
of the senatorial appointment.
And I went back,
and it turns out
that the Carleton King
gave the appointment--
>>REGINA: Who's Carleton King?
>>SHEEHAN: Carleton
King was our congressman
from the 41st congressional
district in New York state.
And he had given his
appointment already
to the son of the Republican
mayor of Glens Falls, New York.
And so I didn't have
the appointment.
So I decided I needed
to become a lawyer.
I said, I need to become
a lawyer because things
are out of tune here.
Things are not
being done the way
they're supposed to be done.
So I'm going to
become a lawyer, and I
will work to help get the
government functioning
the way it's supposed to.
And then I'll go back to
becoming an astronaut.
But it turns out that
rather than things
being a little
bit out of tune, I
discovered that
they were playing
an entirely different song.
than we had been told in high
school civics and in college.
It's just a different song.
There's a whole
different thing going on
than we are taught to believe.
>>REGINA: Right, which was
going against your ethics
for the most part.
>>SHEEHAN: So the bottom
line is it brings me back
to the talk with Rosemary Chalk.
And Rosemary Chalk said, well,
that's really interesting.
One of my best
friends, Marcia Smith,
is the head of the
science and technology
division of the Congressional
Research Service.
She's just been
tasked with doing
this investigation of the
extraterrestrial intelligence
and UFOs.
Would you mind if I
have her call you?
And so I said, no,
have her do it.
So she called me,
and we had lunch.
And she asked me if I,
as the chief counsel
for the Jesuit national
headquarters, which I was
at that time-- this was 1976.
And she said, would
you contact the Vatican
and see if you can get access
to the classified portions
of the Vatican
library that might
have a stuff about
extraterrestrial intelligence
and UFOs?
So I said, sure.
Let me check with my superiors.
I was a candidate
for the Jesuit order
of the Catholic
priesthood at that time.
So I checked with
Father Bill Davis,
and they checked
with Terry Shea,
the head of the conference.
And they said, yes,
you can do that.
So I wrote a letter
to the Jesuit
who's the head of the Vatican
library, and he said no.
And I was kind of surprised.
So I wrote a second
letter back to him.
I said, I don't think you
quite understand what we are
and what we're trying to
get, and President Carter
wants to have this information.
And he said no again.
So I had to tell Marsha
that that was true.
And so then I became a general
counsel for the investigation.
>>REGINA: Now, wait.
How old were you by this time?
>>SHEEHAN: 1976 I was 31.
>>REGINA: I just want
to put that down.
>>SHEEHAN: 31 years old.
>>REGINA: You're a young man.
>>SHEEHAN: And so I became
general counsel for them
and was asked to deliver
a closed-door seminar
to the top 50 scientists
in SETI, which
is the Search for
Extraterrestrial
Intelligence out of
the jet propulsion
laboratory in Pasadena.
And so I said,
well, look, if I'm
going to help prepare this
closed-door session for them
on the theological
implications of contact
with an extraterrestrial
civilization,
I'd like to get access to
some classified materials.
So would you get me access
to the classified portions
of Project Blue Book?
And she said,
well, I don't think
they'll ever give us that,
but there's no harm in asking.
So she told them
who I was and that I
wanted to have access to this.
And lo and behold,
I was given access
to the classified portions of--
>>REGINA: Which almost
nobody on the planet
was ever given, right?
>>SHEEHAN: No, no.
>>REGINA: Was it
redacted at that point?
>>SHEEHAN: No.
No, no.
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
You saw the whole thing.
>>SHEEHAN: They gave
me the entire thing.
>>REGINA: Explain
to audience also,
before you finish this, what
Project Blue Book was so they
get the importance of it.
>>SHEEHAN: Project Blue Book was
the progeny of what originally
started out as Project Grudge.
And it was a classified study
on the part of the United States
Air Force of the
phenomenon of UFOs.
And it turns out that they lied
right from the very beginning.
We've now seen the
internal documents
that show that they lied, that
Richard Dolan's book, these two
volumes of "UFOs and the
National Security State,"
now has secured those
classified documents
of the internal
communications where
they were lying in
telling everybody
that, oh, 95% of
all the cases can
be solved because they're
swamp gas or Venus
or this other stuff.
Most of those were lies.
But there was another portion
of them, like some 9% of them,
that, in fact, they,
quote, "couldn't explain."
That was because it
was completely obvious
that these were UFOs.
And so they assign them
to a classified section.
So I got to see these things.
And so I looked
through these things,
and I actually obtained enough
information about these things
to convince me that it was true.
And so I went back to the Jesuit
headquarters and met with them
and asked them if
they would authorize
me to try to get the
Washington Interreligious Staff
Council, which is the
directors of the Washington,
DC, offices of all 54 of the
major religious denominations
in the United States, to
agree to set up a special task
force to investigate the
philosophical and theological
implications of contact with an
extraterrestrial civilization,
which they wouldn't
do at the time.
>>REGINA: Surprise.
>>SHEEHAN: And so I got to go
deliver the closed-door session
to the SETI people.
And that was all that
happened for a long-- that
was 1977, '76 and '77.
And it was later in 1994
that I was contacted
by Dr. John Mack, who was
the head of the department
of clinical psychiatry at
Harvard Medical School, who
had been asked to do
psychological work-ups
for high-level military
officials that had filed
reports of contact with UFOs.
And they were given
a psychiatric test
to confirm that they were OK,
actually hoping that they could
prove they were nuts, probably.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SHEEHAN: But anyway, and
John Mack, after half a dozen
of these, began to reach
out to other people
to actually interview them,
who had had these contact
experiences.
>>REGINA: Had Bud Hopkins
originally come to you?
>>SHEEHAN: Bud Hopkins started
delivering people to John.
And so John was doing these
psychological work-ups on all
these people and became
convinced that, number one,
they were absolutely sincere
and convinced that this
had happened to them.
And he began to suspect
that it was true.
>>REGINA: In "Password
to the Cosmos"
he talked about
the common traits
that each of these
people experienced.
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, not
only that-- John didn't
talk about it in the book-- but
since I became his lawyer, John
told me that what
he would do is he
would never hypnotize
people, so there was never
any kind of posthypnotic
suggestion or anything to them.
He would do Stanislav Grof's
holotropic breathing, right?
And they would get
very relaxed, and they
would start telling him about
what their experience was.
And he would say, OK, now
you're in this vehicle.
Now I want to turn
to the right and look
at some of the equipment
that's there and the dials
and thing, whatever you see.
Tell me what you see.
And then they would
describe something
that was completely
aside from the narrative
that one would normally tell.
And that's how John did it.
John was getting them
to identify things
that no one would have been
able to make up, and he found--
>>REGINA: And he was
getting cross references.
>>SHEEHAN: He was
They were the same
kind of things.
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK, I didn't know that part.
>>SHEEHAN: Oh. that
was how it happened.
So John contacts me
and asks me if I'll
be his attorney, because he
wrote an article for the "New
England Journal of Medicine"
about this strange phenomenon,
this psychological
phenomenon of all
these high-level military
officials and FAA
investigators, Federal Aviation
Administration investigators,
that were saying that
they had verified
that they were these UFOs.
So he wrote the
article, submitted it
to the "New England
Journal of Medicine,"
and they refused to publish it.
Now, John was a Pulitzer
Prize winning author--
>>REGINA: Head of
clinical psychology, yes.
>>SHEEHAN: Head of the Harvard
Clinical Psychiatry Department.
And so they refused to print it.
So he said, what's the matter?
Are there not enough footnotes?
Do you need more details?
So he rewrote the whole
article and sent it to them.
And it turns out
within two days,
the assistant to the CEO and
publisher of the "New England
Journal of Medicine"
came back to his office
with the envelope
unopened and said,
we're not going to publish this.
No matter what it is that
you're saying in the article,
we're not going to publish it.
And John got upset, and
he contacted a publisher
and published it as a
book, which was really
called "Abductions,
Human Contact
with Extraterrestrials."
And immediately the dean of
the Harvard Medical School
came in and said, look, I'd
like to have you come and talk
with some of the members
of the faculty about this.
And John said, this is terrific.
So he agreed to go
to this meeting.
>>REGINA: Gee, yikes.
What a trap.
>>SHEEHAN: And when
he arrived, here they
are, arrayed up on this
dais with the legal counsel
from Harvard University,
the dean of the school,
and other faculty
members, and they
were into this
inquisition against him.
And so he kind of
freaked out and ended up
calling me because I
was a Harvard College
graduate and Harvard Law School
and Harvard Divinity School.
And so he asked me to
come in to represent him
in front of the Special
Select Faculty Committee.
And so he and I went to
see Lawrence Rockefeller.
And Lawrence Rockefeller
agreed to fund anything
that we needed to make a full
presentation to the Harvard
faculty on both the issues of
extraterrestrial intelligence
and the UFO phenomenon.
And so when I appeared
with him in front
of the faculty committee, they
started to interrogate me.
And I said, excuse
me, hold on here.
I said, can you first
tell me-- this is not
an AAUP, Association of
American University Professors,
authorized faculty committee.
I said, what is this?
What's going on here?
What is this that's happening?
And so John Relman, who is
chairing the committee, who
was the publisher of the "New
England Journal of Medicine"--
>>REGINA: Oh, there you go.
>>SHEEHAN: Was
charing the committee.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: And he
said, well, you know,
after Dr. Mack published this
book, the dean of the Harvard
Medical School started getting
a lot of telephone calls
and asking him questions that
he wasn't able to answer.
So we thought that he'd come
and meet with the people
and be able to answer
some of the questions.
I said, oh, really?
I said, can you
tell me who called?
And there was this
big dead silence.
And Dr. Relman had
turned and looked
at the legal counsel
from Harvard University,
and they went-- And
so he said, I'm sorry,
we're not at liberty
to discuss that.
And I said, OK, well, in
the spirit of cooperation,
if you want us to answer the
questions that he was being
asked so he can answer
the questions, what were
the questions they were asking?
And there was this
big dead silence again
that fell over the room.
And he looked at
the legal counsel,
and she said-- He
said, I'm sorry,
we're not at liberty
to discuss that.
I said, OK, so let
me ask you this.
I said, is it fair for me
to assume that the fact
question will come up during
the course of these hearings,
whatever their nature,
about, number one,
whether extraterrestrial
intelligence exists,
and, number two, whether at
least some of the UFO sightings
might actually be vehicles
from an extraterrestrial
civilization?
Will either one or both
of those fact questions
be at issue in these hearings?
And Dr. Relman said, why,
absolutely they will.
He said, and it's
ridiculous for anybody
to think either one of
those two things is true.
That's what he says to me.
And I said, well, thank you.
Then I should, again, in
the spirit of openness,
let you know that John and
I just spent the weekend
with Lawrence Rockefeller.
He's agreed to fund
anything that's necessary.
We can put on a grand
rounds here for you
and present all the people from
the general officers in the Air
Force and the military--
>>REGINA: Kind of what
turned out to be disclosure.
>>SHEEHAN: We'll present
all these people to you
under oath if you'd
like to do that.
And the legal counsel
for Harvard University
leapt to her feet, and
she said, absolutely not.
We're not going to allow
these hearings to be
turned into a circus, she said.
And so I turned to
John, and I said, OK,
John I guess we're done here.
So let's get up and leave.
And he was going, but--
but-- I said, no, we're
leaving until they're ready
to hear the testimony.
And so we got up and walked out.
And they ended up
sending a letter to John,
apologizing profusely
for his failing
to understand what it
was that they were really
trying to do here and
agreed to leave him alone.
And of course, John set up
a thing called the Project
on Extraordinary Experienced
Research there at Harvard.
And I became general
counsel for them.
So that way, I got to meet
dozens and dozens of people
from all walks of life.
>>REGINA: Well, he was so
highly respect and beloved.
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And so I became his
personal lawyer,
and I became legal counsel
for the PEER project
and got to start meeting
all kinds of people
who had these experiences
in all walks of life,
police officers,
university professors,
and that's how I recently got
to talk with Dennis Kucinich.
Because Dennis Kucinich is
one who was willing to-- well,
actually I brought the
commanding United States Air
Force officer, the colonel who
was in charge of a Minuteman
Missile site--
>>REGINA: Solace?
>>SHEEHAN: No, this
was the colonel.
But the bottom line is I brought
him to meet his congressman
because he was from Ohio, the
10th congressional district
from Ohio, and it
was Dennis Kucinich.
And so I brought him
to sit down with Dennis
and tell Dennis
what had happened.
And Dennis was
saying, look, this
is one of those issues
up here on the Hill.
There are a number of us that
know that this thing is very
serious, but nobody
will touch this,
because there is this
taboo against dealing
with this issue.
And that was how I
first got to meet Dennis
and later became his campaign
policy director in the campaign
later on in 2004 when he
ran for the presidency.
>>REGINA: Right, OK.
All right, drawing
that all full circle.
OK, now let's talk
about how you ended up
in the Vatican libraries.
Let's talk about-- I remember
you showing the drawing
that you sneaked your little
yellow pad into your pants
and came out with a sketch,
a tracing of these symbols.
But let's talk about how
the Vatican became involved.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, what it was
is that I contacted the Vatican
and again asked them
if I could get access
to this, their
classified-- and what
happened is that that's
what generated the Air
Force authorizing me to go in
to see the classified portions
of Blue Book.
This was actually in the
files of the Blue Book,
is where I saw this.
They actually brought the
files to Washington, DC,
and they brought them to
the Jefferson Building,
which was a brand new building
for the Library of Congress.
There wasn't anybody
in those offices yet.
And I went over there
on a Saturday morning,
had to show them three different
forms of photo ID to get in.
There were these two
suits at the door.
And so I went in,
and they said, you
have to walk down this hall.
And so I walked down
the hall, echoing
in this hall with nobody in
the whole building, brand
new building.
And I get in this elevator,
and I go down to the basement.
And I get out of the elevator,
and I can see this light on
down in this office down there.
So I go I go down, and there
are these two other suits there
who recheck my ID.
And it just occurred to
me when I was coming down
in the elevator, I
opened up my briefcase
and took out a yellow pad
and put it under my arm.
And so when I went down
to the basement floor
and met with these guys, they
took my briefcase and said,
you can't take any notes
or anything on anything
you see in there.
And so I walked in,
and what there was
was this room about maybe 18, 20
feet wide, about 10 feet deep.
And they had these
big folding tables.
You think it's going to be
something really sophisticated,
right?
They had these folding
tables, and they
had these boxes, these
little shoebox-size things.
They were this kind
of light green, kind
of institutional green boxes.
And they were filled
with microfiche.
And I took the microfiche
out and brought them
to one of these very
unsophisticated tin
kind of microfiche
crank machines,
and I started looking
through them all.
And I said, I'm never
going to have time
to read all these documents
of what's in here,
but I was looking for pictures.
And so I found this
set of pictures
that showed an absolutely
uncontestable UFO that
had landed.
It had hit in this field, and
it had plowed this big furrow
across the field and was
stuck in the side of a bank.
And it was all snow there,
so this wasn't Roswell.
Here's this UFO sticking at
like a 45-degree angle up out
of this big snow bank.
And there are US Air Force
people all around it.
They had these big parkas on.
And I recognized what they were.
And they were taking film of it.
So this dated it somewhat.
It was a film camera
with those two big rolls
on the top of the camera.
So it's in the
'50s or something.
And so I'm looking
through these pictures,
these different pictures
of it, and suddenly I
realized that at the bottom
of the dome of this UFO
I could see these symbols.
So what I did is I took
out the yellow pad,
and I opened it up to the back
cardboard cover on the inside,
and I put it under
the microfiche,
and I shrunk the microfiche
to fit right onto the page,
and then I traced--
>>REGINA: Traced.
[LAUGHING] I remember.
>>SHEEHAN: I traced the symbols
exactly as to what they were.
And I folded it back up, and
I put the microfiche back in.
And I said, I better get out of
here because I've now got this.
So I put the yellow pad under
my arm, and I go back out,
and I walk out.
And these two suits
that were out there
were kind of surprised
that I'd come out of there.
And so I'm walking away,
and I pick up my briefcase,
and I walk away.
And I get about 15, 20 steps
away from them, and one of them
says, hold it.
What have you got there?
And I said, oh,
it's my briefcase.
I just picked my
briefcase back up.
And he said, no, what's
that under your arm?
And he walked over to me, and
he snatches the yellow pad away
like this.
And he ruffles all the way
through all the pages of it,
and there was nothing there.
So he hands it back to me.
>>REGINA: Because it
was on the cardboard.
I love it.
>>SHEEHAN: And so I go back
the following Monday morning
to Jesuit headquarters,
right there in Washington,
and I go into see father
William Davis, who
was my immediate
superior at the Jesuits.
And I show him this, and
I tell him what I found.
And he reaches down,
and he slides out
the bottom drawer of his
desk, and he takes out
a little manila envelope.
And he slides out of it an 8
1/2 by 11 black-and-white glossy
photograph of a UFO.
And he hands it to
me, and he said,
my sister sent this to me,
[? Dodi. ?] [? Dodi ?] sent
this to me.
Her husband, whom I had met,
was an air traffic controller
in the Seattle airport.
And his best friend
is a commercial pilot
who took this photograph right
out of the window of his plane,
and he didn't dare
report it to anybody
because of all this ridicule.
So he brings it to his best
friend, who is the air traffic
controller, saying,
there, now I've
done what I'm supposed to do.
He brings it home and didn't
know what to do with it,
gives it to his
sister [? Dodi ?]
and says, give this
to your brother.
He's a priest.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHING] OK.
>>SHEEHAN: So he had
it in his drawer.
He says, what does that mean?
What does that mean that
people think like that?
Why is this something that they
should tell a priest about?
And there I was at
Jesuit headquarters
in the process of becoming
a priest, a Jesuit priest,
and here I'm getting
all this information.
And yet the Vatican won't
show it to us, won't tell us.
Even a Jesuit who's the
head of the Vatican library
won't show this to us.
So I went to the National
Council of Churches
in [INAUDIBLE] and ask them
to set up a task force,
and they wouldn't do it.
So that's how I got into this.
So I ended up getting
contacted by Steven Greer.
And he wants me to be general
counsel for the Disclosure
Project.
And my job was to vet all the
different potential candidates
we had.
>>REGINA: This was late 90s now?
>>SHEEHAN: This was 2001.
>>REGINA: Oh, it was in 2001.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah, this was
like beginning of 2001.
>>REGINA: OK, kind of real time.
Yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: And he
asks me if I would--
because I had gone, by
this time from 1994,
with Dr. John Mack and all that.
I was invited to go to the
International UFO Congress
and brief them about how this
thing was going with Dr. John
Mack.
Because everybody was up in
arms over this thing, right?
And so I came in
originally in 1995,
I think, and briefed everybody
at the international UFO
Congress about what
John Mack was doing
and stuff and my getting to
interview more and more people
about this.
And so they asked me,
look, it's a little unique
to have a Harvard Law
School graduate who's
legal counsel for the
Jesuits to be here talking
to the UFO community.
Will you tell us what you
think about all of this?
And so I began to be invited
back for fairly regularly,
and I was explaining
to them, and it
was enabling me to think much
more deeply about all of this,
to take the time to
think about all of this.
I had already done the JPL
lecture to the study SETI
people, so I at first
explained to them
the theological
implications of all this
and the philosophical
implications.
And then I started
talking to them
about the different
worldviews that people have,
that people actually
experience the UFO phenomenon
from the perspective
of their worldview
and that that's what they
think about the UFO phenomenon.
So if you're a military
person, you think about it
as a military threat.
If you're a New Age person,
you think, oh, these
are going to come and save us.
They're going to solve
all of our problems.
And so different people
have different experiences
of the phenomenon.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about disclosure.
So the day of
disclosure has come.
You have vetted the people.
And there's a lot
of hope in the air.
And as you recall, the
National Press Club
was overflowing with
people and reporters.
Of course, not a
peep made it out
to the American press at all.
And people are still
talking about disclosure,
like, oh, when-- it's all ready.
It's going to happen next year.
Oh, it's ready.
>>SHEEHAN: Right
around the corner.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the
white hats are going
to do it for us and all that.
My question is do
you think that what
happened there actually was as
close to a formal disclosure
as it gets?
>>SHEEHAN: Actually,
there's two answers to that.
One is that now the Vatican,
as you know, as of 2009
has issued a formal
statement saying that,
in light of the discovery
of all of these new planets
as a result of the Hubble
Space Telescope, the Kepler
planet-hunter space telescope,
and the Planck telescope
and the new one, the Webb
telescope that's going up
next year, that
we're discovering
more and more of these
planets, and it's clear
that a huge number of
them are in the Goldilocks
zone of their star, not
too cold and not too high,
and that they can sustain life.
And they issued an
official Vatican statement
in November of 2009,
saying that, we believe
that much sooner than anyone
anticipates that life is going
to be discovered,
extraterrestrial life is
going to be discovered.
And this whole Vatican statement
from the official Vatican press
room was issued.
And the host of that
particular meeting
was Father Jose
Gabriel Funes, who
was the Jesuit priest who was
the head of the observatory,
OK?
And so I reached out
to him and started
having these conversations with
him, went to Rome and saw him.
And he flew here and I saw him.
And we started having
these discussions,
and he now has agreed
to chair-- he issued
this call for the beginning
of a very serious discussion
of the profound philosophical
and theological implications
of the discovery of life
elsewhere in the universe.
Well, when I ended up
talking to him face to face,
he and I both acknowledged that
it wasn't just the discovery
of life, like some minute
bacteria under a sea of ice
in some moons
somewhere, but it's
extraterrestrial intelligence
that we're talking about,
right?
And then he and I both
agreed that it wasn't just
intelligence we
were looking for.
What we were looking for
is this other faculty,
this mystical faculty
that the human species has
of being able to immediately
experientially encounter
the unitive phenomenon in the
universe that causes everything
to be harmonious and unified.
That's what we're looking for.
Because the intellect,
intellectus,
the Latin root of
which is the ability
to discover the
difference between.
What we're really looking
for is [INAUDIBLE], which
is the Latin root of
re-linking, of this ability
of the human species to re-link
with the universe, with nature,
the entire created universe
of which we are a function.
That's what we're
looking for in this.
And he has now been given
the blessing of Pope Francis
and of Bishop Sorondo, who
is the head of the Pontifical
Academy of Science,
to take a leave
as the head of the observatory.
And he is now coming
to the United States,
and he is going to be chairing--
we have set up a thing
called the New Paradigm
Institute right next door
to the graduate
theological [INAUDIBLE]
Berkeley, University of
California in Berkeley.
And we're involving all
of the theology schools
that are there, the
graduate schools,
and we're going to be
the conveners of bringing
in all of the world
experts to come in and have
a series of meetings
and discussions
about the profound philosophical
and theological implications
of contact with a highly
intelligent, highly
technologically developed,
but distinctly non-human
extraterrestrial species.
And that's the conversation
that is beginning now.
And I have the great privilege
of being the convener
and being the one
that's going to be
vetting who is
going to participate
in those conversations.
And Father Funes, with
the blessing of Francis
and with the blessing of the
Pontifical Academy of Sciences,
is going to be hosting and
chairing and facilitating
those discussions.
And we're going to reach
out and do those things.
>>REGINA: We're going to
have another separate hour
discussion on the whole notion
of the various paradigms,
how they're existing alongside,
competing with one another,
and where we have
to go as a species
in order to actually have
this effective communication
with these other species
you're talking about.
That's a long and
wonderful conversation,
and so I just want
everyone to know
we are going to go that
in our next conversation.
Meanwhile, so you here
you have at disclosure,
which was Steven
Greer's attempt,
just bring the experts in,
let them tell what they saw.
You're there.
You've vetted them.
>>SHEEHAN: And a dead silence
on the part of the media.
>>REGINA: Dead silence.
And I mean, I was there--
>>SHEEHAN: And no congressmen
wanted to talk about it.
>>REGINA: No one
wanted-- and these guys,
I mean some of these
older men in particular
who had been holding on through
their national security oaths,
were in tears.
I mean, it was very challenging
for them to tell the story.
>>SHEEHAN: And I had agreed
to represent any of them
if they tried to
revoke their pensions
or tried to prosecute them
for a violation of security
clearance.
I had agreed to represent
them individually.
So that's how we got a number of
them to come forward and talk.
>>REGINA: But they
were still scared.
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So the point is we
did have a public disclosure.
It went nowhere, OK?
So now we have this
very deep dialogue
that you're developing.
And you and I talked
off camera about this,
and I saw it for myself.
I was at a Buddhist retreat
at a monastery recently,
and I ran into a
scientist from JPL.
She said, oh, well, I'm
just contracting right now.
I'm not working full time.
I said, what are you on?
She said, well, they've given me
some of the samples from Mars,
and we're looking to see
if it's possible there's
any life on Mars.
>>SHEEHAN: Microscopic life.
>>REGINA: Microscopic
life on Mars.
And I thought, oh,
gosh, here we go.
And you and I talked
off camera, and if you
will explain to people how
the public disclosure is
going to likely roll out.
It's not going to be
another big event.
The big events have occurred,
and it went nowhere.
>>SHEEHAN: I believe that
what's happening now--
and there's two parts
to this answer, I said.
One of them is that now
that these planets are being
discovered, what they're
going to be doing
is they're going
to say, oh, look,
we've discovered a planet
that has a sea of ice,
and we've now discerned
microscopic life
beneath the surface of this ice.
And so they're going to
break that to begin with.
Then they're going to say--
>>REGINA: Water.
>>SHEEHAN: Water
and microscope life.
And now we've discovered life
in the seas of another planet.
We've discovered very
primitive reptiles and stuff
on another planet.
We've discovered mammalian
life on some other planet.
And they're eventually
going to get--
they're just going
to feather it in one
step at a time like
this, and they're
going to ultimately say, oh,
we've discovered some extremely
primitive life form,
like Cro-Magnon life
forms like that, whether
they're reptilian or mammalian
or whatever they are.
And what they're
going to do is they've
decided to feather it in.
>>REGINA: Spoon-feed.
>>SHEEHAN: Feather in to the
world public the existence,
eventually, of a more
sophisticated civilization.
And they're going to
keep secret the fact
that they know that there's
a very highly technologically
developed civilization that's
actually been coming here.
And they're just going
to blow right by this.
But second part of
the answer to that
question about disclosure--
and this Randy Koppang.
Randy Koppang, who has been to
every single UFO conference,
has got copies of every
single speech that's
ever been given, he said, look,
when you really look at this,
they're engaged in a
disclosure project.
>>REGINA: It's already-- yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: They are engaged
in disclosure project.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SHEEHAN: They are
feathering in this information
to different people,
including journalists,
[INAUDIBLE] and others.
And they're giving them access.
There's people from
Area 51 that are
being allowed to come out
and talk to people in public.
>>REGINA: Nick Pope and the
whole English story, yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
They're allowed to come out.
And he said, and Randy is
writing a book about this
now, saying, wait a second.
Don't you realize that there is
a disclosure project going on?
It's just taking an
entire generation.
>>REGINA: It's perpetual.
Yes.
>>SHEEHAN: That they're going
to take the entire generation
from 1947 with the Roswell
encounter all the way through.
And they're going to have an
entire generation that they're
planning like 100-year rollout
of more and more information
to the point where
this generation passes
from the scene, but
the new generation
is coming in behind us are
completely acclimated to this.
Because you take the millennial
generation that are basically
33 down to about 15 right now,
that millennial generation.
You poll them, and 95%
of them will tell you
that it's absolutely
clear that there's
extraterrestrial intelligence.
And not only that, but it's very
likely that these UFOs and ET
contacts are happening.
And so this second answer
to the question is,
there's already a rollout.
This is going on here, OK?
But they're going to go
this other route of doing it
kind of formally.
But this other one
is kind of informal.
>>REGINA: For the early adopters
that are willing to listen.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Do you
think-- and this
is the big question
I think everybody
in this particular area
of study has asked.
Do you think that the incredible
caution has been justified,
that the public at large really
isn't capable of handling this
if it were something
to happen very quickly?
>>SHEEHAN: No, no.
>>REGINA: I don't either.
>>SHEEHAN: I think there
are two answers to this.
It's not because of the public.
>>REGINA: What are
they concerned about?
I mean, I know there's whole
technology part of the story.
>>SHEEHAN: That's the first one.
Remember during the
Cold War, during that
entire period--
remember the Cold
War went all the way from 1917.
It didn't just begin at 1945.
It began in 1917
with the overthrow
by the Bolsheviks of the
czar of Russia, Alexander.
And ever since
that time, there's
been this dialectic
going on with
the nation-state capitalists
and Western civilization
against the socialists
in Eastern culture.
And the bottom line
is that as long
as the Cold War was going on,
the United States was never
going to reveal any
of the technology
that they had encountered
with the Roswell crash, OK?
And they were going to
try to weaponize it.
You know the old
saying, the Sufi saying,
when a pickpocket meets a saint,
all he sees are his pockets.
>>REGINA: Rights.
Right. [LAUGHING]
>>SHEEHAN: OK?
And so coming at it
from that perspective,
that worldview, which is a
dialectical, confrontational
worldview, they perceive
these extraterrestrial people
as being a potential threat, OK?
And so their job--
it's their job assigned
by both the Republican
and Democratic Party.
Your job is to
protect the airspace
and not allow anyone to come
into the airspace that isn't
monitored and taken care of.
And here these people
are coming and going,
and we can't admit that.
>>REGINA: But that could have
been a sell to the public.
Be afraid.
Be very afraid.
We need your money.
We're developing this stuff.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, they were still
working on Russia at that time.
Because what they're
doing is they're
being able to fund at
that point $300 million
a year to protect
us against Russia.
And now they're into
doing anti-terrorism.
This big one, this
big one that we--
one of our major assignments
that all of us who
care about this is to
prevent the warrior class,
the national security
state people,
from making this
the ultimate other.
And these are the
ultimate other in that
we have to spend more
than $600 billion a year.
>>REGINA: That was the
warning of Wernher von Braun.
>>SHEEHAN: That's exactly
right, that they'll
go right to the thing,
and so you've got
to stop them from doing that.
So you have to establish a
friendlier dynamic with regard
to the extraterrestrials--
>>REGINA: Which is
what you're doing.
>>SHEEHAN: That's our
job, is to do that.
But-- so that's one thing.
That one, which is comparatively
predictable, at least for those
of us who spent 30, 40
years in this area, that's
one we have to be careful.
But on the other hand,
Marshall Summers-- there's
a whole set of books
that have been written
by this fellow named Marshall
Summers, which is called
"The Allies of Humanity."
And what he's talking
about is the fact
that there are, in fact,
extraterrestrial civilizations
that are very spiritually
evolved and very
compassionate and supportive
of our human family here,
very concerned about
what it is we're
doing to the planet,
the destruction
of the natural environment, that
this is an extraordinarily--
not unique planet, but it's
a very rare type of planet
that gestates life,
that generates life.
>>REGINA: The diversity of life.
>>SHEEHAN: The vast
diversity of life.
And it's an absolutely
fabulous experience.
But there's only one in every
like 5,000 to 10,000 planets
that has this capacity.
So this quest we're
on of these exoplanets
that we're looking for, there's
probably 50 billion of them
that they assume are
within the Goldilocks zone.
But there's very
few of them that
are of this nature in
that we, as the custodians
of this particular planet,
this particular species, Homo
sapien, are not taking
great care of this.
In fact, we've allowed 1%
to take control and destroy
the planet.
And they're
concerned about this.
>>REGINA: And just
to interject this,
no matter which books
you read on abduction
and variations of
that, this is the theme
that comes up over and over.
When the people go
wherever they go,
they see the future
scenarios and what's
happening to the Earth.
This is a common thread.
>>SHEEHAN: But as Marshall
Summers points out
in his books, he
says, look, the fact
that there are these
allies of our human species
that have been here and
have been trying to warn us
about this, the
fact of the matter
is that many of the
extraterrestrial civilizations
and the lifeforms are
sort of like we are.
They see the planet as a great
source of resources and the DNA
materials and stuff
for planting life
on other planets, et cetera.
And these other
extraterrestrial species
are not necessarily
any better than we are,
if you really think about it.
They've got specific
objectives, commercial trade,
and exploiting
resources, et cetera.
And so the fact is, we're
getting this mixed message,
that there are some beings
that are coming here
and that are
experimenting with us.
They're doing
biological experiments,
like we would in the jungle.
>>REGINA: That's what we do.
>>SHEEHAN: Capturing people
and experimenting with them,
just like we do chimpanzees.
So it's important for
people to understand
this is a sophisticated issue.
And there's a cross-section
of different types of beings
that we're encountering here.
And so it's the allies, who
are these spiritually evolved
beings, that we need to
establish our communications
with these beings and not fall
into being duped into just
having someone arrive and
say, here, we can give you
some super technology because
we've got superluminal travel,
and all you have to do
is end up establishing
a unilateral treaty with
us or a trade agreement
with us, like a TPP.
>>REGINA: We're talking
about that in the next show.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
And so we have to
be very careful.
And what I've been
trying to do is
to use the special privilege
that I've been given of getting
access to a Harvard education
and the law school education
and with the Jesuits and
all the different people
and meeting
[INAUDIBLE] and getting
to meet all the spiritual
leaders of our people
and our planet, is
to try to develop
a really intelligent,
sophisticated,
spiritually informed
but rationally developed
set of policies for
our dealing with
extraterrestrial civilizations.
And this is a very
important responsibility
that our generation has,
because we're at that spot.
We are privileged to be
in the position of when
this is happening.
And so what we have
to develop something,
because this is going to
affect our human civilization
for tens of millions of years.
And so we're at
that exact juncture.
So if people are
wondering why they happen
to have been born at
this particular time
and what is the special mission
that our generation has,
and this is it, to protect our
planet from an economic system
that Pope Francis
has warned us about,
that are exploiting the
resources of our planet,
are destroying the
natural resources,
that are threatening the
entire ecosystem that we have.
Our responsibility
is to undo this,
to deconstruct these structural
sources of injustice--
>>REGINA: Destructive, yes.
>>SHEEHAN: As the Jesuit
Order, the Society of Jesus,
has said in their 30-second
general congregation documents
in 1975, our responsibility,
equal to the preaching
of the mass each
day, which we would
say equal to the meditation
practice that each of us has,
that we have an
obligation to deconstruct
the structural
sources of injustice
in both Western and Eastern
culture on our planet.
And we have to develop
an economic system which
is compassionate and caring
for not only the planet,
but for the poorest of the poor.
And this is what Francis
is calling people out to
in his Papal Encyclical
in June of 2015.
He's asking all of
us to come forward.
And at the same time in
his earlier statement,
called Evangelii Gaudium,
he has issued a call
for all people who have faith in
the future of our human family
to come forward
with the good news
that there is, in
fact, a future for us.
But we have to take
responsibility for our planet.
And we have to be careful with
the second call the Vatican has
issued for developing a really
careful and sophisticated
process by means
of which we begin
to communicate with an
extraterrestrial civilization.
>>REGINA: A mature diplomacy.
>>SHEEHAN: A mature diplomacy.
Those are the responsibilities
that we have, both of them.
>>REGINA: Well, you have
your work cut out for you.
And it's really a
truly profound project
that you're doing at
New Paradigm Institute.
And that's going
to be the subject
of our next
conversation and more.
So I think you've given everyone
a taste of Danny Sheehan,
and I can't thank you enough for
your decades of ethical work.
And you're still going strong.
>>SHEEHAN: People can contact
us at the Romero Institute.
The New Paradigm Institute
is a wholely integrated
auxiliary project of
the Romero Institute,
named after Bishop Oscar.
Romero.
>>REGINA: Is it romero.org--
romeroinstitute.org.
>>SHEEHAN: It's
And they can contact us,
and they can become members,
and they can get
newsletters from us.
And people can participate.
Because this is-- everybody has
to get on board this operation.
Because we all have
to participate.
I want our people to be
participating in this process.
>>REGINA: You want all of
the perceptions and stories.
>>SHEEHAN: I want everybody's
perspective on this thing.
Everybody gets to
participate in this.
Because this is [INAUDIBLE],
which is one of the signs
that we need to be able to
give to an extraterrestrial
civilization that we
aren't run by a 1% elite.
We're not run by
some governing class.
>>REGINA: There's
a collective voice.
>>SHEEHAN: There's a
whole collective process,
that our people
are mature enough
to make our decisions for
ourselves and be responsible.
So people contact us, and
everybody participate in this.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So thank you.
Can't wait for the
next two hours.
Again, you can contact Danny
at the romeroinstitute.org
and get on board.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]